---
Layout: default
Title: "Socket.io"
Date: 18-12-2019

---

# What Socket.IO is

Socket.IO is a library that enables real-time, bidirectional and event-based communication between the browser and the server. It consists of:

- a Node.js server: Source | API
- a Javascript client library for the browser (which can be also run from Node.js): Source | API

## Its main features are:

1. Reliability
Connections are established even in the presence of:

- proxies and load balancers.
- personal firewall and antivirus software.

For this purpose, it relies on Engine.IO, which first establishes a long-polling connection, then tries to upgrade to better transports that are “tested” on the side, like WebSocket. Please see the Goals section for more information.

2. Auto-reconnection support
Unless instructed otherwise a disconnected client will try to reconnect forever, until the server is available again. Please see the available reconnection options here.

3. Disconnection detection
A heartbeat mechanism is implemented at the Engine.IO level, allowing both the server and the client to know when the other one is not responding anymore.

That functionality is achieved with timers set on both the server and the client, with timeout values (the pingInterval and pingTimeout parameters) shared during the connection handshake. Those timers require any subsequent client calls to be directed to the same server, hence the sticky-session requirement when using multiples nodes.

4. Binary support
Any serializable data structures can be emitted, including:

- ArrayBuffer and Blob in the browser
- ArrayBuffer and Buffer in Node.js

5. Multiplexing support
In order to create separation of concerns within your application (for example per module, or based on permissions), Socket.IO allows you to create several Namespaces, which will act as separate communication channels but will share the same underlying connection.

6. Room support
Within each Namespace, you can define arbitrary channels, called Rooms, that sockets can join and leave. You can then broadcast to any given room, reaching every socket that has joined it.

This is a useful feature to send notifications to a group of users, or to a given user connected on several devices for example.