---
Layout: default
Title: "How my week was"
Date: 21-08-2020

---

# How my week was?

My week has been good as I've been working on the react project which I had and the requirement was to create a react shopping app which allowed a user to view a list of items and the user is able to register and login and then add items to basket and the checkout component was supposed to show the list of items added to the basket and the total amount due and the user was supposed to check out and all the login data and registration data was supposed to be saved into a database. I was also doing some katas to improve my code wars points and today I was working on creating a react weather app that could get a user real-time weather forecasts for a specified place.

# Challanges 

On the react shopping app the challenges that I had was doing post requests to my database when a user was registering, but then I managed to figure it out and then I faced a problem when it authenticated the users and change the route in frontend but a user had to refresh the page to render the path which changed. It was something which I solved on one of the post requests but the second one was just not working out and my submission time was elapsed and I'm waiting for the results to be back as I don't want to disturb the markings but after that, I'm going back to fix my bugs.

# What have I learned?

These past weeks I've learned a lot of things especially routes and database data handling and including hooks and the most fun part about understanding something is learning it and it's been fun. I've also learned how you can work with data in an API because a majority of what I've been doing was all about APIs.
