---
Layout: default
Title: "SQL"
Date: 09-10-2020
---

# What is SQL

- SQL stands for Structured Query Language
- SQL lets you access and manipulate database

# What can SQL do?

- SQL can create new databases
- SQL can create new tables in a database
- SQL can create stored procedures in a database
- SQL can create views in a database
- SQL can set permissions on tables, procedures, and views
- SQL can execute queries against a database
- SQL can retrieve data from a database
- SQL can insert records in a database

# What have I learned from working on SQL

I recently got a project on SQL and what I understood about it is that I was going to be communitcating with a database somehow but I've never used Sql databases so this past day was about learning new things. I faced challanged of understanding how to connect to the database from my react app since I'm used to working on MongoDB and I learned the key difference between Mongodb and SQL Servers.

## Key differences between MongoDB and SQL Server

- MongoDB is more fast and scalable in comparison to the SQL server.
- MongoDB doesn’t support JOIN and Global transactions but the SQL server supports it.
- MongoDB supports a big amount of data but the MS SQL server doesn’t.
- MongoDB support Agile practices but MS SQL server doesn’t support it.
- MongoDB schema is dynamic but MS SQL server schema is fixed.
- Ms. SQL server provides XML support but MongoDB doesn’t.

## What Does SQL Stand For?

SQL stands for Structured Query Language. Essentially, it's a language that allows communication with databases in order to manage all the data they contain.

## Is SQL a Programming Language?

- Yes, SQL is a language. It offers looping, logic directives, variables, and so on. However, it’s not a language in the same sense as, say, Java or C++.
- SQL is considered a fourth-generation language (4GL), whereas Java and C++ are third-generation languages (3GLs).
- SQL may not be a language on par with Java or C#, but it is a language nonetheless. 
- According to W3Schools: “SQL is a standard language for storing, manipulating and retrieving data in databases.”

# How to Use SQL 

While an application might be programmed in a language like Python, PHP or Ruby, databases are not configured to understand these. Historically, databases understand only SQL (though this has changed significantly in recent years). Because of this, learning SQL is almost a must if you intend to work in web development or app development.

Like other programming languages, SQL has its own markup. This makes it necessary for a programmer to learn SQL markup before they can use it effectively. 

Besides markup, another feature unique to database programming is the concept of tables. A database may be represented as a number of tables. Each table has its own number of columns and rows and represents a set of data.

Imagine a library. We could create a database that stores data about books in the library. 

In this case, we would need only one table: 

This table would allow us to store all the information we need.

There are a few frequently used SQL commands you should be familiar with for database work. When working with databases, a programmer might write commands such as:

- CREATE DATABASE – to create a database
- CREATE TABLE – to create tables
- SELECT – to find/extract some data from a database
- UPDATE – make adjustments and edit data
- DELETE – to delete some data
These are just the most common commands. The more complicated the database is, the more commands you as the programmer will need to use.

These commands are used when writing queries–inquiries that allow you to operate data in databases. In other words, when you enter these commands in a database system, the system interprets the commands and processes them. The result could be, for example, a new record in the database, or the creation of a new database. 

