---
Layout: default
Title: "How my week was and my friday test"
Date: 21-08-2020

---

# How my week was ?

My week was productive as I learned a lot of stuff and Jason managed to come through to The Coding Ground and managed to give us some workplace tips and skills. I've been working of Codewars this week and managed to complete a few kata's which were difficult to solve. I've also improved my accuracy along with my typing speed and I'm looking forward to constinue learning which has become fun recently even when I keep on failing stuff I understand that I'm on the path of learning.

# My test.

Today I wrote a test which involved me building a shopping app using react.js and it was pretty fun as I went all out to make sure that everything is good. The web app was supposed to register a user and the user was supposed to add items to a basket and checkout and all of the login data was supposed to be stored in the database. I've managed to do almost all of the front-end functionality and I'm staisfied with what I have because my app looking like professional websites which are out there. I didn't manage to do all the backend stuff under the given 6hours and next week I'm looking forward to adding my backend and then authificate my users and hopefully submit the best ever web app I've done in the history of my programming journey. If you would like to take a look at my project proto-type here is the link to my project and it has a picture of the initial landing page "https://github.com/Selfmade20/tcg/tree/master/spaza-app"